>> David Khourshid: All right, so
I want to briefly talk about fetching data
because when you look at
your applications, or
at least many applications in React
that I've seen, some of the most,
I don't want to call it egregious,
but some of the most common
uses of Use state and Use effect are for
fetching data and React.
It gives you actually
a couple patterns or, sorry,
React naturally gives you a pattern
right now to prevent that.
And that's using Suspense and
using server components.
Now if you don't have
the ability to do that,
like you're not on the latest version
of React and that's not possible.
One of the more common approaches
that you could do is using
a third party data fetching library.
So I'm going to go to Fetch readme.
Commonly we see this useeffect and
Usestate dance when we're searching for
results.
You've probably seen this
code all over the place.
This is just a very common example of
how you have accidental complexity.
This has almost nothing to do with the
problem domain that we're working with.
It's in fact the only line that
matters is this one right here.
Well, this one and
the actual flight search.
Everything else is just noise.
And so this is an example of how it just
makes things really confusing to work
with, even though like it's
an extremely common pattern.
So, what can we do instead?
We can actually use a library
like Tanstack Query.
And so with Tanstack Query, it has so many
features that if you were to build your
own data fetching abstraction,
some of these features are things that you
might run into in the future and
realize that.
All right,
Tanstack Query already has this built in,
such as being able to define how
long to keep things in the cache or
automatic retries and things like that.
So how many of you have
actually heard of or
are using Tansat Query
in your applications?
All right, 50%, that's [LAUGH].
Yeah, and
I'm sure that many of you have honestly
just done this Use effect pattern.
And even this isn't perfect.
Like we need to set let is is
canceled to like false and
then we need to do some cleanup.
So return is canceled.
True, this used to be like the way
that you would fetch data and
use effects the proper way.
But now instead of that, the more modern
way is like const aborts controller.
You set up an abort controller and
then you have abortcontroller aborts.
And then you could either pass it
in natively if it supports it, or
you could do something where
if the signal is aborted,
then return, it gets really confusing.
And these are things that you're
typing over and over and over again.
And that's why it's tempting to
make your own abstraction or
to just copy paste this entire thing.
And even when you ask AI coding
assistants, they're probably going to
create a useeffect usestate mess
just like this for fetching data.
But instead of that,
we could just use query.
So with Tanstack query,
it does require a query client, and
I'll show you where that's set up,
but you give it a query key.
And so this is going to be an array that
uniquely identifies the data that you're
loading.
So we scope this,
we're seeing that this is flights, and
we pass in the flight search data so
that if the flightsearch data changes and
we refetch again, we know that we're
not going to reach into the cache
because there is no cache item for this.
Or we're going to have to make a new
search, which happens over here.
And honestly, these are pretty optional.
There's also mutations
if you want to like,
instead of fetching within a component,
you want to just fetch directly when some,
when some side effect
is supposed to happen.